Introduction

|| Remark: Completed + Cited + No need to change ✅
|| Report + Conference Paper

Embedded systems form a core part of the modern technological infrastructure. Its applications ranges from medical micro-robots to autonomous aerial and ground vehicles. Most common and famous example is unmanned aerial vehicles (drones). They are  used in parcel delivery, aerial shows, agriculture, and environmental monitoring. Their fast adoption is empowered by increasingly capable yet lightweight embedded platforms (like PineCone BL602) operating under real-time operating systems )like FreeRTOS). The deterministic execution, efficient resources management, and predictable timing make these system reliable and effective. This project deals with one of these important factor for these system, which is memory management. The memory management plays a very crucial role in real-time operating systems like FreeRTOS. Without a good memory mangement system, these system can have slow performance whcih is not desirable in real-time operating system.

Memory management is a keystone of any operating system, be it general-purpose, embedded, or real-time, where RAM is usually scarce and predictable performance is expected. Dynamic memory management defines: how memory will be allocated, kept track of allocated and free memory, and reclaim freed memory during program execution. This directly impacts system reliability and responsiveness. Efficient memory management main goal is to minimize the chance of fragmentation occurring, guarantee the fastest possible speed for memory allocation and deallocation, and prevent delayable time-critical tasks due to nonpredictable memory operations. To achieve this goal, the choice of allocator in systems like FreeRTOS becomes quite important, where light and deterministic behavior is necessary. 

The embedded environments has very low RAM and unyielding execution deadlines. Even minor inefficiencies in either allocation or fragmentation can cause system performance degradation. FreeRTOS provides multiple simple heap allocators, heap_1 through heap_5 [6], designed to minimize overhead. This simplicity opens up several challenges in dynamic workloads: fragmentation, low coalescing, and unpredictable behavior under stress [6]. As embedded applications continue to increase in complexity, these limitations will result in unstable performance, wasted memory, or system crashes. To deal with this problem, buddy memory allocation technique is proposed as a solution in this paper. 

The Buddy Memory Allocation Algorithm is a dynamic memory management technique wherein the blocks of memory are divided recursively into two equal-sized “buddy” blocks to meet the demand for the allocation request, and later merged when both buddies become free. Fast allocation, predictable merging behavior, and reduced fragmentation are various advantages this approach has over linear allocation schemes.


This project investigates the integration of the Buddy Memory Allocation algorithm into FreeRTOS as a replacement for the default heap implementations. The buddy system was originally formalized by Donald Knuth as a power-of-two block splitting and coalescing method [1]. The buddy system offers deterministic allocation time, logarithmic complexity, and efficient merging of free blocks. Subsequent research has expanded on this model by showing improved fragmentation control [2], efficient coalescing [3], and fast allocation–deallocation performance [4]. These characteristics make the buddy system an attractive candidate for real-time embedded environments. This project focuses on buddy memory allocator which runs on resource constrained system like PineCone BL602.The system aims to achieve three main objectives through its allocation mechanism: it will provide stable memory llocation patterns and minimize memory fragmentation while optimizing memory usage for existing FreeRTOS applications. The project finds its use in all fields that depend on embedded systems including robotics and aerospace and industrial automation and medical devices. The optimization of memory management systems remains essential for all domains that use embedded systems because it enables engineers and system architects to achieve performance and reliability and cost-effectiveness. This work contributes toward such optimization through the use of a deterministic and theoretically sound memory allocation mechanism that is specifically implemented for embedded real-time systems.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

\section{Introduction}
	\label{sec:intro}
	
    Embedded systems form a core part of the modern technological infrastructure. Its applications ranges from medical micro-robots to autonomous aerial and ground vehicles. Most common and famous example is unmanned aerial vehicles (drones). They are  used in parcel delivery, aerial shows, agriculture, and environmental monitoring. Their fast adoption is empowered by increasingly capable yet lightweight embedded platforms (like PineCone BL602) operating under real-time operating systems )like FreeRTOS). The deterministic execution, efficient resources management, and predictable timing make these system reliable and effective. This project deals with one of these important factor for these system, which is memory management. The memory management plays a very crucial role in real-time operating systems like FreeRTOS. Without a good memory management system, these system can have slow performance which is not desirable in real-time operating system.

    Memory management is a keystone of any operating system, be it general-purpose, embedded, or real-time, where RAM is usually scarce and predictable performance is expected. Dynamic memory management defines: how memory will be allocated, kept track of allocated and free memory, and reclaim freed memory during program execution. This directly impacts system reliability and responsiveness. Efficient memory management main goal is to minimize the chance of fragmentation occurring, guarantee the fastest possible speed for memory allocation and de-allocation, and prevent delay-able time-critical tasks due to non predictable memory operations. To achieve this goal, the choice of allocator in systems like FreeRTOS becomes quite important, where light and deterministic behavior is necessary. 

    The embedded environments has very low RAM and unyielding execution deadlines. Even minor inefficiencies in either allocation or fragmentation can cause system performance degradation. FreeRTOS provides multiple simple heap allocators, (\texttt{heap\_1} through \texttt{heap\_5})  [6], designed to minimize overhead. This simplicity opens up several challenges in dynamic workloads: fragmentation, low coalescing, and unpredictable behavior under stress [6]. As embedded applications continue to increase in complexity, these limitations will result in unstable performance, wasted memory, or system crashes. To deal with this problem, buddy memory allocation technique is proposed as a solution in this paper. 

    The Buddy Memory Allocation Algorithm is a dynamic memory management technique wherein the blocks of memory are divided recursively into two equal-sized “buddy” blocks to meet the demand for the allocation request, and later merged when both buddies become free. Fast allocation, predictable merging behavior, and reduced fragmentation are various advantages this approach has over linear allocation schemes.


    This project investigates the integration of the Buddy Memory Allocation algorithm into FreeRTOS as a replacement for the default heap implementations. The buddy system was originally formalized by Donald Knuth as a power-of-two block splitting and coalescing method [1]. The buddy system offers deterministic allocation time, logarithmic complexity, and efficient merging of free blocks. Subsequent research has expanded on this model by showing improved fragmentation control [2], efficient coalescing [3], and fast allocation–de-allocation performance [4]. These characteristics make the buddy system an attractive candidate for real-time embedded environments. This project focuses on buddy memory allocator which runs on resource constrained system like PineCone BL602.The system aims to achieve three main objectives through its allocation mechanism: it will provide stable memory allocation patterns and minimize memory fragmentation while optimizing memory usage for existing FreeRTOS applications. The project finds its use in all fields that depend on embedded systems including robotics and aerospace and industrial automation and medical devices. The optimization of memory management systems remains essential for all domains that use embedded systems because it enables engineers and system architects to achieve performance and reliability and cost-effectiveness. This work contributes toward such optimization through the use of a deterministic and theoretically sound memory allocation mechanism that is specifically implemented for embedded real-time systems.







